Module 2 Notes - HTML Common Tags
You learned a lot of HTML tags in this module. What you learned can be categorized as follows:

basic HTML tags
special characters
Lists


Basic HTML Tags
You learned the following about basic HTML tags in this module:

line break
The br is used to create line breaks in code. Line breaks are commonly used for mailing addresses and should not be used for formatting a web page. CSS, which is discussed later in the course, should be used for formatting a web page.

whitespace
Whitespace is the unprinted character created by hitting the space bar. No matter how many spaces are entered, the browser recognizes it as one space.

sections
A section is a collection of related paragraphs, images, or other content that includes a heading. You can have sections inside sections inside sections. They are a container tag used to group content together.

headings
A heading provides a title for a section of content. There are six levels of headings:

h1
h2
h3
h4
h5
h6

The h1 tag is the first level heading and should describe the contents of the entire page. It MUST be used first in your document, before any other heading level. In this assignment, the h1 tag is at the top of the page and contains the content "Module 2 Notes - HTML Common Tags". On a real site, your h1 and title would normally contain the same text.
The h2 through h6 tags should be used for subtopics/subchapters. You may not skip heading levels, and headings should not be used for style. By the time you are done coding this assignment, you should have a better understanding of heading tags.

text formatting
There are a number of html tags that can cause the text to render in a different way in the browser. You can learn more about text formatting tags at developer.mozilla.org. Below is a partial list of some text formatting tags that you learned in this module.
em
strong
b
i
code


Special Characters
Entities are used for coding special characters. While there are three ways to code entities, it is recommended that you use the entity name. It is the easiest to remember. You can learn more about character entities at w3schools.com. The most common characters that you will use in this course are those for the trademark symbol and the copyright symbol.

Non-breaking spaces should only be used to keep two words together, so one word does not wrap to the next line. For example, Paradise Bakery would probably want those two words to appear together at all times. They would never want the word Paradise on one line and then have the word Bakery wrapped to the next line. To keep the words together, you would code a non-breaking space between the two words so it would be treated as one long word.


Lists
The two most common types of lists are ordered lists and unordered Lists

Ordered Lists
Ordered lists should be used for lists that require an order. The steps needed to enroll in a course at ASU might be one example of an ordered list. There are many steps, and they need to be done in a specific order. Ordered lists would also be used for a list where the items are ranked.

Unordered Lists
Unordered lists should be used for lists that do not require order. An unordered list was used above for the various text formatting tags.
